{"created_utc": "2026-06-23T13:24:39.463261+00:00", "dpi": 400, "effective_psm": 1, "embedded_text_min_chars": 80, "engine": "ghostscript+tesseract", "lang": "eng", "orientation_detection": true, "pages": 8, "psm": 1, "source": "/Users/glennsorrentino/Documents/Personal/UAP/Department of War/Release 3/release_03_documents/DoW-UAP-D080_Narrative-2_Western-US-Event.pdf"}



===== PAGE 1 =====
{"chars": 3750, "method": "embedded", "page": 1}

UNCLASSIFIED
                           OFFICE  OF THE  UNDER  SECRETARY  OF WAR
                                      5000  DEFENSE  PENTAGON
                                     WASHINGTON, DC  20301-5000
       INTELLIGENCE
       AND SECURITY
                                                                         02 June 2026
           MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD
           SUBJECT:  Nairntive from Witness 2 - Western U.S. Event
           References:  (a) https://www.war.gov/ufo/#Western-US-Event,VIRIN: 260508-D-D0360-1052,
                     08-MAY 2026.
            1.  Executive Sumrna1y .
                 This memorandum presents the first-hand naiTative from Witness 2 provided to the All­
           domain Anomaly Resolution Office (AARO). Witness 2 was one of several United States (U.S.)
           federal law enforcement special agents who reported observing unidentified anomalous
           phenomena (UAP) over a period of two days in October 2023 in the western United States.
           2.  Witness Na1rntive.
                                   equest to provide a free-fo1m naiTative of the sequence of events
                 ill response to AARO 's r
           exactly as they remember them, Witness 2 submitted the following text:
           "illcident 1
           ill October 2023, my paitner and I were tasked to survey an area for individuals launching
           drones.  My paitner and I were positioned in a valley, with mountain ranges to the west and east
           and more distant ranges to the north; we had teams positioned throughout the ai·ea as well.  The
                                 d] watched the sunset as dusk trnnsitioned into darkness.  At
           weather was clear; we sat [ an
                                    ved a bright circulai· orb-like light approximately 35-45
           approximately 1900 hours, I obse1
           degrees above the n01thern/no1theastern horizon.  Originally, the light was not dissimilar to that
           of a luminescent planet obse1ved in the night sky but grew slowly brighter.  The bright orb-like
           light had a smaller red orb-like light within it.  As the bright orb-like light grew lai·ger, it
           expelled three or four red lights from it.  The red lights accelerated instantly and maneuvered
                               ination into a horizontal fonnation. The red lights were
           with perfect, smooth coord
           approximately 1/15 the size of the orb-like light.  The bright orb-like light did not appear to be an
                           but rather a bright natural light with a slight halo effect.  The red lights were
           aitificial neon glow,
           less luminescent and appeai·ed to be more like artificial lights (e.g., taillights).  Following the
           expulsion of the smaller red lights, the bright orb-like light dimmed and faded from sight. From
           approximately 1900 hours to approximately 1930 hours, I witnessed the process repeat
           approximately five times across the n01thern, northeastern, and eastern horizon.  Our teams
           confnmed they obse1ved the same objects.  The last grouping of red lights moved in a horizonal
           pattern to the southern horizon where they remained the rest of the evening.  The three red lights
                              ined equally spaced.  From approximately 1930 hours until
           were all aligned and rema
           approximately 2300 hours, the red lights hovered above the southern horizon. The red lights
           sometime dipped below the horizon, out of sight but consistently rose back up. At
                                               1
                                        UNCLASSIFIED


===== PAGE 2 =====
{"chars": 4330, "method": "embedded", "page": 2}

UNCLASSIFIED
      approximately 2300 hours we departed the area.  There were no acoustics, interreference or
      physiological effects experienced during the incident.
      The objects appeared to move with purpose in a coordinated fashion, but it did not appear to be a
      defensive countermeasure.  It looked like a mix of mechanical deployment and biological
      division; it appeared too smooth and agile to be mechanical, but too structured/coordinated to be
      a biological division.  To offer an obscure yet similar description, I find the characterization of
      portals oddly comparable to the event I witnessed.  The bright orb-like light was small, grew
      larger, appeared to project objects out of it, and then it dimmed until it was no longer visible; not
      dissimilar to the opening and closing of a portal through which objects travel and deploy
      forward.  I am not saying or suggesting that was what we observed but rather offering that as a
      similar/applicable description.
      Incident 2
      In October 2023, my partner and I were tasked to survey an area for individuals launching
      drones.  My partner and I drove northwest on a rural highway and turned right onto a dirt road
      heading north/northeast up a valley toward a mountain range.  We drove for approximately 10
      miles before parking a small hill at approximately 1800 hours.  The weather was clear; we sat
      [and] watched the sunset as dusk transitioned into darkness.  At approximately 1845 hours, I
      observed two circular orb-like lights appearing to be headlights of a vehicle to the south
      approximately five to seven miles away.  The headlights sat still in the valley while we sat and
      continued to observe the area.  At approximately 1900 hours, I observed a row of red lights
      appearing to hover approximately 15 degrees above the southern horizon (I do not recall how the
      lights entered the area).  The lights were consistent with the glow of a taillight and appeared to
      be arranged in a triangular formation or attached to unobservable vehicle of some sort; they
      appeared to cover the area of a football field, hovering over a significant portion of the horizon.
      The object floated with an impossible, eerie stillness.  At that same time, I observed the vehicle
      to the south of our location flash its lights toward us; the flashing appeared to be consistent with
      a white pulse.  Soon after, what appeared to be headlights of a second vehicle approximately one
      mile east of the first vehicle, still approximately five to seven miles from our location.  The
      second vehicle flashed their lights in the same manner as the first vehicle.  The two vehicles
      appeared to hover within, approximately, a six-mile by six-mile box between the southern tips
      mountains ranges surrounding the valley.  While the two vehicles moved in between the
      mountain ranges, the row of red lights remained in place, appearing to still hover above the
      southern horizon.  At approximately 1915 hours, one of the vehicles appeared to move north
      toward our location.  We decided to drive toward the objects.  One set of lights turned off but the
      other remained in view.  We drove with our headlights off only utilizing night vision equipment;
      at one point reaching approximately 70 miles per hour.  At some point while driving toward it,
      the headlights morphed into one bright white/orange orb-like light with a halo-like glow.
      Around two or three miles north of the original highway we exited from, we appeared to be
      gaining on the object; at approximately 50 yards away we thought were going to encounter it.
      The object then accelerated instantly to the south, traveling at least one mile south in less than a
      minute across the rugged terrain.  We continued south toward the object for a short distance; the
      object shifted east and continued eastward until it stopped at the base of the mountain range,
      dimmed and turned off.  The object’s travel was inconsistent with a vehicle’s travel over rugged
      terrain; the object appeared to hover and floated smoothly across rugged terrain.  We parked on
                          2
                      UNCLASSIFIED


===== PAGE 3 =====
{"chars": 4443, "method": "embedded", "page": 3}

UNCLASSIFIED
      the road and watched in the direction the light had been.  After a short while, the light turned
      back on, and the object began to move west across the valley.  Again, the object appeared to
      hover over the terrain as it moved across in a gliding motion approximately half a mile south of
      our location.  After passing the dirt road we were parked on, the light transformed into a group of
      orange and purple lights in the shape of a box (not dissimilar to a semi-truck in shape and
      opaqueness).  We started to drive south toward the highway.  The box of lights continued
      uninterrupted north/northwest toward the mountain range on the west side of the valley.  The
      object glided smoothly across the rugged terrain as if traveling at a high rate of speed on a non-
      existent road.  The object covered approximately four miles of rugged terrain within
      approximately one minute.  The object came in proximity to the mountain range, the lights
      turned off, and the object was not seen again.  Once the lights near the mountain range were no
      longer visible, the row of red lights hovering above the southern horizon were gone as well.  The
      incident concluded at approximately 2000 hours.  There were no acoustics, interreference or
      physiological effects experienced during the incident.
      The objects in the valley appeared to stay within 20 feet of the ground and did not extend beyond
      that.  The objects appeared highly reactive to our interaction with them.  The objects initially
      appeared to mimic vehicles (my best example is the flying car from the Harry Potter book
      series).  The object then appeared to mimic a box truck (superficially) but was inconsistent with
      what an actual vehicle travel.  The object appeared to “toy” with us (flashing headlight on and
      off and moving abruptly once we came in proximity).  The movements appeared very controlled,
      and the sudden transition of the object felt very purposeful.  The “headlights” and “box-truck”
      did not appear organic; the orb-like light is harder to define.  All the objects did appear
      significantly technologically advanced, and their behavior was inconsistent with physics.  The
      triangle/red lights over the horizon were reminiscent of the Phoenix lights event/incident in the
      1990s.
      Incident 3
      In October 2023, my partner and I were tasked to survey an area for individuals launching
      drones.  Sometime between approximately 2100 and 2300 hours, my partner and I pulled off
      onto a side of the road to observe an orb-like light we saw sitting on the on the road at the crest
      of a hill.  The night was clear and dark.  At this point we had seen several unusual objects and so
      we stopped to observe the object.  The object was on a rural highway approximately one to two
      miles northwest of us just sitting on the road.  It was similar to a single headlight but was a bit
      brighter and larger in size.  It caught our attention because, if it were headlights, the lights should
      theoretically be moving west to east.  We decided to drive towards to catch up with it and
      observe the object more closely.  As we started driving towards it, the object began to travel west
      on the road as if it were a vehicle.  It hovered above the right lane at approximately the height of
      a vehicle.  It was unusual because if it were an actual vehicle we would expect to see taillights,
      there would be two lights not one, we would be gaining on it, and gravity would force the vehicle
      to follow the road pattern exactly; the object we saw only has one center light and loosely
      followed the road pattern, gliding very smoothly.  If I recall correctly, on several occasions the
      bright orb-like light dimmed out and transitioned to what appeared to be a single red taillight but
      then transitioned back to the single bright orb-like light.  The object maintained this behavior for
      approximately 10 to 15 miles.  We travelled approximately 80 miles an hour and could not catch
      up to it.  Towards the end of the interaction, we saw the object abruptly transition into an orange
      light/orb-like-disk with a halo glow and glide to the side of the road at the base of a hill.  The
                          3
                      UNCLASSIFIED


===== PAGE 4 =====
{"chars": 1990, "method": "embedded", "page": 4}

UNCLASSIFIED
      road we were driving on curved to the left where the orb-like-disc landed.  As we neared it, what
      appeared to be a semi-truck came around the corner and was driving right toward us.  If I recall
      correctly, at that moment we were not sure if this was the same object that had transitioned into a
      semi-truck coming at us or if this was an actual vehicle on the road.  In the video footage, I
      believe we say something about thinking it was going to hit us.  The apparent semi-truck passed
      us at a high rate of speed and appeared to continue down the highway eastward.  Having focused
      our attention back to the side of the road, we saw that the orb-like-disc was no longer there.
      There were no acoustics, interreference or physiological effects experienced during the incident.
      The object appeared highly reactive to our interaction with it.  It sat still on the road and did not
      start moving until we pulled onto the road and began driving toward it.  The object appeared to
      mimic a car (my best example is the flying car from the Harry Potter book series, if it had a
      single center headlight); the mimicking felt specific and off-putting.  Other vehicles passed
      heading east and no one appeared to react to the object we were seeing (i.e., no vehicles pulled
      over or stopped abruptly).  The sudden transition/appearance of the object felt very purposeful.  I
      do not know if the semi-truck that came around the corner had anything to do with the object
      disappearing, but it felt similar to when we approached the other object on the dirt road, and it
      appeared to move far away instantly as soon as we thought we were going to encounter it.  It felt
      like it was drawing us in and had control to disappear instantly.  The video footage captures
      some of it, but more valuable is the audio of our reactions.
                          4
                      UNCLASSIFIED


===== PAGE 5 =====
{"chars": 558, "method": "embedded", "page": 5}

UNCLASSIFIED
      Drawings or Sketches
      The following are AI-generated images of the three incidents based on prompts and descriptions
      I provided.  The images make no reference to a specific location or geological features and
      contain only generic landscape features.  The lights/orbs displayed are merely a rendering of
      relative size but are not to exact scale.  Also, please note, these are being generated two and a
      half years after the events.”
      Incident 1
                          5
                      UNCLASSIFIED


===== PAGE 6 =====
{"chars": 92, "method": "embedded", "page": 6}

UNCLASSIFIED
      Incident 2
                          6
                      UNCLASSIFIED


===== PAGE 7 =====
{"chars": 28, "method": "ocr", "page": 7}

UNCLASSIFIED

7
UNCLASSIFIED


===== PAGE 8 =====
{"chars": 161, "method": "embedded", "page": 8}

UNCLASSIFIED
      Incident 3
                                 Jon T. Kosloski
                          8      Director, AARO
                      UNCLASSIFIED
