{"created_utc": "2026-06-23T13:02:17.026549+00:00", "dpi": 400, "effective_psm": 1, "embedded_text_min_chars": 80, "engine": "ghostscript+tesseract", "lang": "eng", "orientation_detection": true, "pages": 4, "psm": 1, "source": "/Users/glennsorrentino/Documents/Personal/UAP/Department of War/Release 3/release_03_documents/DOW-UAP-D077_Unresolved-Case-Analysis-Update_Western-United-States-Event.pdf"}



===== PAGE 1 =====
{"chars": 3568, "method": "embedded", "page": 1}

UNCLASSIFIED

                                       OFFICE  OF  THE  UNDER  SECRETARY  OF  WAR
                                                       5000  DEFENSE  PENTAGON
                                                     WASHINGTON,  DC   20301-5000

                INTELLIGENCE
                AND  SECURITY

                                                                                                         05  JUNE  2026

                 MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

                 SUBJECT:  All-domain Anomaly Resolution Office (AARO) Unidentified Anomalous
                              Phenomena (UAP) Case  Analysis Update:  Western U.S. Event “Orbs Launching
                              Orbs”

                 References:  (a) https://www.war.gov/ufo/#Western-US-Event, Incident 1 of 4, VIRIN: 260508-
                               D-D0360-1052, 08-MAY 2026.

                 1.  Executive Summary.

                         This memorandum summarizes the All-domain Anomaly Resolution Office’s (AARO)
                 ongoing analysis of a reported incident near a sensitive national security site in the western
                 United States involving unidentified anomalous phenomena (UAP) over a period of two days in
                 October 2023.  As of  June  2026, the case remains unresolved.

                                        1
                 2.  Incident Summary.

                         Over a period of two days in October 2023, six federal law enforcement special agents
                 reported observing “orbs launching other orbs,” near a sensitive national security site in the
                 western United States at approximately dusk.  Each team of two agents reported observing
                 phenomena with similar morphological features and performance  characteristics from multiple
                 viewing angles.

                         The phenomena’s most distinctive reported feature was the repeating  nature of their
                 pattern of behavior, in which  a luminous orange “mother orb” appeared  to produce smaller red
                 “orbs,” one   after another, multiple times over a period of several hours.  Reporters described the
                 orange “mother orbs”   as appearing for one to two seconds, releasing a cluster of two to four   red
                 “orbs,” and subsequently disappearing.  The  reporters characterized the behavior of the red
                 “orbs” as anomalous, describing varied kinematic profiles including seemingly coordinated
                 horizontal motion and  apparent changes in altitude.   The red “orbs” reportedly persisted for
                 several seconds before disappearing, however, in at least one instance, the agents described a red
                 “orb” as remaining  stationary above  a ridgeline  for several hours.  The  reporters also described
                 the phenomena   as “silent.”     The  agents  provided consistent accounts using similar language to
                 characterize their   experiences and the apparent behavior of both the red and orange “orbs.”

                 3.  Analytic Factors.

                 1
                  AARO’s use of   source-derived  descriptive and  evaluative  language  in  this  summary  is  intended  to  preserve the
                 integrity  of  narrative  testimony  as provided  by  first-hand  observers.
                                                                    1

                                                           UNCLASSIFIED


===== PAGE 2 =====
{"chars": 4432, "method": "embedded", "page": 2}

UNCLASSIFIED

                                a.    The reporting agents did not collect video footage, photographic imagery, or other
                                      technical data during the incident.  Human capacity for  optical estimation regarding the
                                      distance, size,  speed, and direction of travel  of unreferenced phenomena in low-light
                                      conditions is constrained by intrinsic biological and perceptual limitations.  As a standard
                                      analytic practice, AARO considers the influence of such limitations when assessing
                                      narrative descriptions of a phenomenon’s morphological and performance  characteristics.
                                      In this case, AARO assesses that contextual factors supersede those limitations, and that
                                      the nature of the reported incident warrants  further investigation.  These factors include:

                                          i.      The close alignment of the phenomena’s reported morphological features and
                                                  kinematic profiles with those of other reported incidents in the western United
                                                  States region.
                                         ii.      AARO’s favorable assessment of the reporting agents’ contextual awareness of
                                                  the operational environment and overall familiarity with U.S. military systems.
                                       iii.       The high degree of consistency in  the agents’ narrative descriptions of potentially
                                                  anomalous features, as seen from multiple viewing angles.

                                b.   Due to a lack of instrument-measured distance data, AARO cannot determine  whether the
                                      phenomena’s reported silence  corresponds to an inherent characteristic  or to  acoustic
                                      attenuation.

                                c.    The total number of orange “mother orbs” is unclear based upon the narrative reporting.
                                      As described, AARO finds two interpretations plausible:

                                          i.      A single orange   “mother orb” periodically “launching” smaller red “orbs.”
                                         ii.      Multiple orange “mother orbs” periodically “launching” smaller red “orbs.”

                         4.  Current Case Disposition and Hypotheses.

                                      Approximately 40 percent  of the reported phenomena  lack a plausible explanation  after
                         first stage analysis  and thus remain unresolved.   To evaluate this incident, AARO cross-
                         correlated the agents’ narrative accounts against commercial and military flight logs, radar data,
                         spatial estimates, and Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) data.  AARO
                         considered several hypotheses to account for the currently unresolved component  of the
                         phenomena.

                                a.    Misidentified Military Aircraft Exhaust (Ruled Out):   The reported characteristics do not
                                      align with those of military aircraft exhaust.  Though military aircraft were  present in the
                                      airspace, their altitudes were too high for standard exhaust to appear as orange “orbs.”
                                      This hypothesis is also inconsistent with the  agents’ characterization of the phenomena as
                                      “silent,” the reported loitering behavior,  and the apparent “launching” of red “orbs.”

                                b.   Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) (Unlikely):   Agents reported that, in at least one case,
                                      red “orbs” persisted over a period of several hours.  A loitering time of several hours
                                                                                                         2

                                                                                           UNCLASSIFIED


===== PAGE 3 =====
{"chars": 5354, "method": "embedded", "page": 3}

UNCLASSIFIED
                                      exceeds the standard battery capacity and operational limits of typical military and
                                      commercially available multi-rotor UAV systems.

                                c.    Military Aircraft Dispensing Flares (Partially Plausible):
                                          i.      Supporting Factors:   Historical flight logs confirm that U.S.  military aircraft
                                                  operating in the  area  were equipped with, and actively deployed,  infrared
                                                  countermeasure  flares  as a component of a standard exercise.  The reported
                                                  morphology and behavior of these  phenomena align with known characteristics of
                                                  certain military infrared flares.  The phenomena’s position relative to the
                                                  observers, perceived direction of travel, and time  of observation strongly align
                                                  with historical radar and ADS-B data,  suggesting that approximately 60  percent  of
                                                  the reported activity is plausibly attributable to military  aircraft.   The  agents, who
                                                  are professionally familiar with the visual characteristics of military flares, stated
                                                  that the phenomena did not exhibit those characteristics.   However, the visual and
                                                  behavioral characteristics of the specific types of flares carried by the military
                                                  aircraft operating in the area differ from those of standard illumination flares.
                                         ii.      Contradictory Factors:   For the remaining 40  percent  of reported observations,
                                                  radar and ADS-B data indicate that no known aircraft were  active within the
                                                  observers’   estimated line-of-sight from the ground.   In at least one case, the
                                                  agents’   report of  a red “orb”   remaining stationary for several hours  is physically
                                                  incompatible with the burn-time and descent rate  of any known military flare.

                                d.   U.S. Capability Deconfliction (Blue Force) (Plausible, inconclusive):   AARO conducted
                                      a comprehensive review of programs and activities across the Department of War and the
                                      Intelligence Community to ascertain whether the time, date, location, and reported
                                      features of the phenomena align with those of any U.S. developmental program, test
                                      event, or operational capability.  AARO assesses that the characteristics described in the
                                      agents’ narrative   account align with those of certain U.S. military technologies. However,
                                      historical records are inconclusive regarding whether those technologies were present at
                                      the time and place of the  reported incident.  Furthermore, while each reported
                                      characteristic shares features with known U.S. military systems, no single Blue Force
                                      capability fully accounts   for all the phenomena’s reported characteristics.

                                e.    Foreign Intelligence Activity (Red Force) (Highly Unlikely):   AARO  consulted with
                                      partners in the Intelligence Community to assess the likelihood that the reported
                                      phenomena indicate the presence of foreign intelligence activities.  While AARO cannot
                                      definitively rule out the deployment of entirely novel foreign collection platforms, the
                                      reported kinematic  profiles  diverge significantly enough from those of known adversary
                                      systems  that AARO assesses this hypothesis as highly unlikely.

                                f.    Phenomenological & Environmental Factors  (Unlikely):   AARO consulted with subject
                                      matter experts to explore  possible natural phenomena  whose characteristics may account
                                      for those of the  reported phenomena.   Potential attributions included:

                                          i.      Meteorological phenomena.  Weather conditions were generally inconsistent with
                                                  those necessary to produce rare phenomena such as ball lightning or sprites.
                                                                                                         3

                                                                                           UNCLASSIFIED


===== PAGE 4 =====
{"chars": 4334, "method": "embedded", "page": 4}

UNCLASSIFIED
                                    ii.      Atmospheric anomalies, (e.g., temperature inversion and refractive effects).
                                             Weather conditions were generally clear, with seasonable temperatures and
                                             typical levels of light pollution for the area.  AARO assesses as unlikely that such
                                             conditions would contribute to misperceptions of a phenomenon’s physical or
                                             kinematic features.
                                   iii.      Space-based phenomena,  (e.g., stars, planets, meteors, satellite flaring, rocketry).
                                             The agents’ diverse viewing angles make it highly unlikely that misidentified
                                             celestial bodies account for the phenomena.  In instances in which reporters
                                             described stationary “loitering” behavior, misidentified celestial bodies are   more
                                             plausible, though still unlikely.  Attribution to meteors or other  ephemeral space-
                                             based phenomena, including satellite flaring, is inconsistent with the reported
                                             persistence of at least one  of the red “orbs” over a period of several hours.
                                             Bolides, for example,  typically exhibit  a characteristic tail, which is inconsistent
                                             with the reported morphology of the “mother orbs.”

                            g.  Unrecognized Technology (Pending):   AARO’s   preliminary exclusion-based hypothesis
                                  is that, given the otherwise unexplained kinematic and physical characteristics described
                                  in narrative reports, unrecognized technology may account for up to 40  percent  of the
                                  phenomena associated with this incident.  However, this provisional assessment is based
                                  solely upon narrative testimony, as well as the elimination of competing hypotheses, and
                                  is unsubstantiated by technical data or  physical evidence.

                       5.  Next Steps.

                                  AARO assesses that the  features described by the reporting agents are sufficiently
                       anomalous to warrant continued investigation into the nature of the underlying incident.  AARO
                       intends to integrate scientific modeling capabilities from partner agencies within the Federal
                       Government, expertise from scientific and academic institutions, and insights from multi-
                       domain, multispectral data exploitation techniques to inform its assessment of this and other
                       reported UAP cases in the western United States region.   AARO will continue to update its
                       analytic tradecraft to incorporate the best scientific and intelligence  analysis practices to resolve
                       anomalies with higher confidence.

                                  AARO will also seek opportunities to broaden its relationships  with partners possessing
                       relevant technical and domain expertise to enhance its ability  to efficiently deconflict Blue and
                       Red Force programs and activities, as well as to optimize data collection protocols to incorporate
                       more diverse sources.  AARO may revise its  assessment and provide updates if additional
                       intelligence and data sources become available.


                                                                                                                              Jon T. Kosloski
                                                                                                                              Director, AARO
                                                                                              4

                                                                                 UNCLASSIFIED
