{"created_utc": "2026-06-23T12:36:42.617161+00:00", "dpi": 400, "effective_psm": 1, "embedded_text_min_chars": 80, "engine": "ghostscript+tesseract", "lang": "eng", "orientation_detection": true, "pages": 2, "psm": 1, "source": "/Users/glennsorrentino/Documents/Personal/UAP/Department of War/Release 2/release_02_document_bundle/ODNI-UAP-D001_USPER_Narrative_Senior_USIC.pdf"}



===== PAGE 1 =====
{"chars": 3656, "method": "embedded", "page": 1}

In late 2025, during early evening daylight hours, I – a senior U.S. intelligence officer – along
                with a colleague and two pilots, departed our Joint Operations Center (JOC) in a helicopter.
                Our mission was to investigate loud thuds heard in the mountains on the test range, which
                coincided with Unidentiﬁed Aerial Phenomena (UAP) sightings reported over the previous
                several nights.  We aimed to search remote mountain areas for possible debris or objects
                that might explain the orb-like sightings.
                After leaving the JOC, we ﬂew a low-altitude “nap-of-the-earth1” route through the
                mountain range for several hours.  Multiple times, we spotted debris on the ground and
                descended for closer inspection.  Each time, we determined it was remnants from rockets
                and other projectiles that had crashed during years of weapons testing on the range.  As we
                continued searching near areas of reported orb activity, we discovered a large cave
                entrance with no visible end in sight.  The terrain around the entrance offered no safe
                landing spot, so I instructed the pilot to orbit it several times for observation.  We noted the
                location and then pressed on.
                Running low on fuel, we headed to a prearranged rendezvous point to meet a ground team
                and let my colleague disembark.  The two pilots and I then proceeded to a prepositioned
                tanker on the range for refueling.  Our plan was to return to base afterward, but the JOC
                radioed with a request to search a nearby mountain for debris spotted by one of the ground
                teams.  By this time, the sun had set, and the pilots switched to Forward Looking Infrared
                (FLIR) and Night Vision Goggles (NVG), while I continued using the unaided naked eye.
                After a brief search of the mountain yielded no ﬁndings, the pilots began navigating back to
                the JOC to end the mission.  I then received a message from the JOC:  radar had detected
                hits several miles up range from our position – the same area where UAP activity had been
                observed on prior nights.  I relayed this to the pilots, and we altered course to intercept.
                What followed was a series of close UAP encounters lasting over an hour.
                En route, ground teams reported spotting a UAP on FLIR, describing it as “super-hot,” low to
                the ground, and moving east then south at high speed.  The object then split into two and
                changed direction.  Upon arrival, we scanned the area using NVG, FLIR, and the naked eye.
                The ground team suddenly radioed that the object had risen from the ground, approached
                within ten feet of the helicopter, dropped below us, and then sped away.  The pilots
                observed it through NVGs and saw it split into two as a smaller object emerged before it

                1 May 26, 2026, correction: The document originally posted to the PURSUE collection of UAP-related records
                on May 22, 2026, under the name “ODNI-UAP-D001, USPER Narrative, Senior USIC Official,” contained a
                typographic error in the second paragraph, describing a helicopter ﬂight proﬁle as “map-of-the-earth.” The
                correct military aviation term for this proﬁle is “nap-of-the-earth.” This document has been updated to reﬂect
                this correction.


===== PAGE 2 =====
{"chars": 2691, "method": "embedded", "page": 2}

accelerated out of sight.  We brieﬂy pursued but broke off, unable to match its speed.  At
      one point, the JOC informed us that several ﬁghter jets had launched on a training mission
      in our operating area and requested their assistance in identifying the UAP.
      Minutes later, the JOC directed us to nearby radar detections.  We took up a hovering
      position at approximately 700 feet above ground level (AGL).  In the distance, we saw
      countless orange orbs swarming in all directions against the backdrop of the mountain.
      The display lasted several minutes before fading.  The JOC then redirected us to our
      previous position based on fresh radar hits.  I provided coordinates to the pilots, and we
      moved to intercept, hovering again at 700 feet AGL. Through NVGx, the pilots and I (using
      the naked eye) observed two large orbs ﬂare up side-by-side, close to the helicopter –
      stationary and just above the rotor disk to our right.  They were oval-shaped, orange with a
      white or yellow center, and emitted light in all directions.
      After a few seconds, a third orb ﬂared up below the pair, followed by a fourth below that,
      forming a total of four or ﬁve in a “T” formation under the original two.  Moments later, they
      dimmed in reverse order, remaining stationary until they vanished from view.  The entire
      event lasted 10-15 seconds.  I didn’t take photos, as I was focused on assessing what it was
      and whether it posed a threat.
      After this encounter, the pilots brieﬂy considered landing due to the objects’ proximity but
      opted to remain hovering at 700 feet AGL for further observation.  We then spotted the
      ﬁghter jets entering visual range at about 23,00 feet AGL, identiﬁable by their blinking
      navigation lights.  As watched from afar, the same type of orbs appeared directly above the
      ﬁghters.  They ﬂared up one at a time in a horizontal formation, matching the jets’ speed
      and ﬂight path.  After 10-15 seconds, they dimmed sequentially and disappeared.  This
      repeated several times as the jets transited the airspace and eventually landed.  I remarked
      to the pilots that it seemed the same orbs we had encountered were now “chasing” the
      ﬁghters.  We also observed orange orbs ﬂaring up and down around us for several minutes,
      forming a distinct triangle before vanishing.
      Low on fuel, the pilots decided to return to the JOC.  After landing, I brieﬂy spoke with them
      – mostly to express thanks.  We were virtually speechless after these observations.  I then
      entered the JOC for a quick debrief before driving home.
