{"created_utc": "2026-06-23T13:24:39.200206+00:00", "dpi": 400, "effective_psm": 1, "embedded_text_min_chars": 80, "engine": "ghostscript+tesseract", "lang": "eng", "orientation_detection": true, "pages": 2, "psm": 1, "source": "/Users/glennsorrentino/Documents/Personal/UAP/Department of War/Release 3/release_03_documents/DoW-UAP-D079_Narrative-1_Western-US-Event.pdf"}



===== PAGE 1 =====
{"chars": 3792, "method": "embedded", "page": 1}

UNCLASSIFIED
                           OFFICE  OF THE  UNDER  SECRETARY  OF WAR
                                      5000  DEFENSE  PENTAGON
                                     WASHINGTON, DC  20301-5000
       INTELLIGENCE
       AND SECURITY
                                                                         02 June 2026
           MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD
           SUBJECT:  Nairntive from Witness 1 - Western U.S. Event
           References:  (a) https://www.war.gov/ufo/#Western-US-Event,VIRIN: 260508-D-D0360-1052 ,
                     08-MAY 2026.
            1.  Executive Sumrna1y.
                 This memorandum presents the first-hand naiTative from Witness 1 provided to the All­
           domain Anomaly Resolution Office (AARO). Witness 1 was one of several United States (U.S.)
           federal law enforcement special agents who reported observing unidentified anomalous
           phenomena (UAP) over a period of two days in October 2023 in the western United States.
           2.  Witness Na1rntive.
                 fu response to AARO's request to provide a free-fo1m naiTative of the sequence of events
           exactly as they remember them, Witness 1 submitted the following text:
           "It staiied the first night with other teains repo1iing weird lights moving along in groups miles
           away. From my vantage point I could not see them, though in theo1y should have been able to.
           Because ofmy location I did not see anything specific the first night.  The second night another
           teain member and I were out working and driving to our destination.  As we headed through a
           valley area we suddenly noticed a large glowing ball to our right 90 degrees from where we
           were.  It looked like it was between us and a hill face, and initially I guessed it was 500 to 600
           meters away, though another later day I was able to use a range finder to put the distance to the
           hillside at about 1100 meters. The ball appeared close to the hill face. It was just a circle of light
                             pattern ofbright lava.  It was bright in the dusk light, the time was just
           that looked like a swirly
                  pm I think.  It was not visible up to the moment we first saw it, though the hillside face
           before 7
           behind it was visible as we drove for some distance before we saw the object.  The object's
           lighted ai·ea was a well defined circle, but had no visible strncture at the edges to show what
               ined the light or why it was where it was.  Looking at it through binoculars it almost
           conta
           appeared to have a line or spindle below possibly touching the hillside below.  It was not
           possible to verify for sure because ofthe distance. There was no observed glow behind or below
           the object on the hillside or ground.  It was only observed for a minute or two before we could no
                                      just could not see it anymore. There was no paiiiculai·
           longer see it.  It did not fade out, we
           sound heai·d with it.  All seemed quiet and it was pretty remote.  I would have guessed the circle
           to be 20 feet or more in diameter.  We sta1ied driving and drove a few more minutes. Then we
           stopped and had to get out ofthe vehicle.  About 20 minutes later to the front, another object that
           looked similar lit up in the sky over the top of another hillside slightly to the right of front.  It
           appeai·ed to be several miles away.  It only lit up for a second or two and then was gone again.
                                               1
                                        UNCLASSIFIED


===== PAGE 2 =====
{"chars": 3584, "method": "embedded", "page": 2}

UNCLASSIFIED
      While it was lit, it appeared three red lights flew out of and away from it.  They seemed evenly
      spaced apart and moved pretty fast, quickly disappearing from sight.  At the same time the
      orange light lit up, there appeared to be a flash from over the horizon to the left.  The flash lit up
      the sky pretty well, though very briefly.  About twenty minutes later the experience repeated
      except this time the orange ball appeared to the front and slightly to the left this time.  This time
      however, the red lights appeared to leave in a different pattern as one flew straight out, one
      appeared to fly up horizontally and another flew down horizontally, appearing to fly away in a
      vertical alignment of three lights.  A flash accompanied this event as well and all three sightings
      appeared to be similar though at different distances.  Several hours later we departed from where
      we were at to drive to another location in preparation for work the next day.
      It took several hours of driving, and as we were driving hours later still, we observed a car
      driving ahead of us on the road, we were gaining on the car and as we got closer I noticed it
      appeared one taillight cover was broken because one taillight was red and one was white.  They
      were also different because one was round and one was square.  Another vehicle approached
      from the opposite direction and as it was about to pass the vehicle in front of us, the car changed
      direction and moved off the road to the right.  The oncoming vehicle continued driving and
      passed us, almost like it did not even see the vehicle move of the road as it passed.  It did not
      bounce or move with the terrain, but seemed to hover.  It did not kick up any dust either.  It
      stopped on the road next to it, and the lights appeared to be in the same position facing us even
      though we were in a different direction from it.  When we stopped the lights turned off and I
      could see a darker object moving up and toward behind us as it flew away.  When we stopped we
      already had the windows rolled down and I did not notice any sound at any point.  It reminded
      me of a Toyota Prius for some reason.  It was hard to identify the exact shape though.  The
      hillside was about 200 meters away, and when it stopped it was less than halfway to the base of
      the hillside.  We started looking around the area and approximately an hour or two later as we
      were stopped we observed some dust and thick spider web looking material floating in-front of
      us.  We then saw what looked like the same object floating in a more vertical orientation floating
      with the dust.  It was still at an off angle.  I could see where the spots were for the two lights and
      one being round and the other square.  The lights were not on though.  The object itself was still
      hard to define its shape and borders visually.  It was in the air about 15-20 feet up and as it
      floated past I could see a star through the object, as well as the crest of the hill and some
      vegetation.  It was almost like looking at something through water where it was not completely
      clear.
      We eventually continued to our destination and I did not have any other contact or sightings of
      those objects of that night that I observed.”
                                 Jon T. Kosloski
                                 Director, AARO
                          2
                      UNCLASSIFIED
