{"created_utc": "2026-06-23T15:05:33.112371+00:00", "dpi": 400, "effective_psm": 1, "embedded_text_min_chars": 80, "engine": "ghostscript+tesseract", "lang": "eng", "orientation_detection": true, "pages": 3, "psm": 1, "source": "/Users/glennsorrentino/Documents/Personal/UAP/Tridactyl/carta-UNICA-EN-1.pdf"}



===== PAGE 1 =====
{"chars": 2948, "method": "embedded", "page": 1}

STATEMENT BY THE UNSLG-ICA ON THE CASE OF THE DRIED
                      TRIDACTYL BODIES OF NASCA
         The National University "San Luis Gonzaga" (UNSLG) Ica, Peru, through its research team,
         wishes to address the scientific community at the national and international level, as well as the
         authorities and the general public, to inform about our study work in relation to the dried tridactyl
         bodies with both human and reptilian characteristics, which have been known in the media as the
         "Nazca mummies". These mummies were discovered in the provinces of Palpa and Nazca, in the
         Department of Ica, Peru. As time has passed, this finding has gained notoriety in the media, gene-
         rating controversy and debate. In this sense, we wish to clarify and communicate the following::
         1-     On August 1, 2019, the National University "San Luis Gonzaga" (UNSLG) in Ica, Peru,
           received four desiccated bodies with both human and reptilian characteristics. These speci-
           mens were delivered by journalist Jorge Israel Mantilla Carvajal, by virtue of his right to
           confidentiality and in compliance with the principle of confidentiality of the source of infor-
           mation, in accordance with article 2, paragraph 18 of the Political Constitution of Peru. The
           delivery of these bodies was carried out for the purpose of their custody, conservation and
           the conduct of investigations aimed at clarifying the authenticity of said dried specimens.
         2-      The largest body, which we call "Maria", has a size similar to that of a human being, but with
           notable anatomical differences, among which an elongated skull and the presence of three
           fingers on both hands and feet stand out. The osteological and imaging analysis of the
           extremities shows structural harmony and congruence, without evidence of phalangeal
           mutilation, and rather evidence of inflammatory sequelae in the dorsal column and feet,
           except in the case of the smallest body, which we have called "wawita ".
         3-      The smaller bodies, which are approximately 60 cm in length, exhibit a morphological and
           anatomical structure that differs significantly from that of humans. The skin has morpholo-
           gical and histological characteristics that resemble those of reptiles, and both the hands
           and feet are tridactyls. In addition, they have voluminous skulls and their bone and joint
           system in general differs significantly from human anatomy, showing atypical, unique and
           "suí generis" features and characteristics. It is important to note that no rigid or metallic
           joining and supporting elements have been found in the joints of the entire body. Due to the
           uniqueness of these bodies and the marked anatomical and structural


===== PAGE 2 =====
{"chars": 2711, "method": "embedded", "page": 2}

differences, more exhaustive research is required to better understand their nature.
        4-     Metallurgical analysis, carried out by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), of a metallic pectoral
          implant revealed an important finding. It was determined that the implant is composed of an alloy
          of several metals, with osmium being the predominant element. It is relevant to note that osmium
          is an element that was officially discovered by Smithson Tennant and William Hyde Wollaston in
          1803. Due to its electrical properties, osmium is used in the manufacture of some electronic
          devices and in the production of sensors. Additionally, the microscopic study through optical
          metallography has revealed the existence of a matrix of microstructures with microporosities and
          microinclusions in the implant.
        5-     However, despite the advances that point towards the confirmation that these bodies are real biolo-
          gical bodies and the presence of osmium in a metallic implant, it is evident that more exhaustive
          studies are needed due to the marked morphological and structural differences that have been
          detected through comparative anatomy. Therefore, it is important to highlight that these prelimina-
          ry results are not conclusive.
        6-      During the period of custody and conservation of the dried bodies, our research team, mostly
          composed of medical specialists, has faced multiple obstacles and difficulties in the proper
          execution and completion of the investigations. These challenges include the pandemic, budget
          limitations, lack of institutional support, lack of necessary logistics, equipment and technology, as
          well as legal interference by entities such as the Ministry of Culture and the Public Ministry, among
          others. Despite these obstacles, we managed to carry out imaging studies based on x-rays and
          tomography, using resources provided by the researchers themselves, and metallurgical studies
          with the support of the National University of Engineering (UNI).
        7-      It is important to note that at no time has the research team stated that these bodies belong to extra-
          terrestrial beings. In the course of our investigations, the most we can affirm from a scientific
          perspective is that these are biological bodies of unknown origin, (which existed in times past) but
          not human. Our approach is based on rigorous study and the search for answers within the realm
          of science, without making speculative statements about the nature of these bodies.


===== PAGE 3 =====
{"chars": 1110, "method": "embedded", "page": 3}

8-      It is important to emphasize that, from the beginning, no member of the research team has been
          motivated by media, political, economic or any other interests.
       9-      Our sole intention has been to carry out scientific research in order to rigorously determine
          whether the desiccated, humanoid-looking tridactyl bodies are authentic or falsified, whether
          they are of biological origin or not, and to reveal the mystery surrounding their authenticity.
          Our commitment has been to the advancement of scientific knowledge and the search for
          objective answers about these specimens.
       10-    Finally, as a result of our investigations, the research team has come to the conclusion that the
          desiccated bodies studied are completely authentic from a biological point of view, and show
          no signs of having been manipulated or weaponized in any way. Our scientific approach has
          been rigorous, and the results contribute to the authenticity of these bodies.
                                    Ica Peru, November 1, 2023.
